#summary Best practices for REST-oriented architectures
#labels Featured

According to "RESTful Web Services" by Leonard Richardson and Sam Ruby.

  * *Addressability*
  
  Every resource has its own unique URI.
  Suggestion: Every _representation_ of a resource has its own URI.
  Headers shouldn't be the only tool a client has to specify which resource or representation is selected.

  * *Statelessness*
  
  The server never stores any application state. Each client request is considered in isolation.

  * *Safety*

  A client that makes a GET or HEAD request is not requesting any changes to server state.

  * *Idempotence*

  Making more than one PUT or DELETE request to a given URL should have the same effect as making only one.

  * *New Resources: PUT vs POST*

  A client can only use PUT to create resources when it can calculate the final URI. If the URI is not known, the client can POST to a "factory" resource. *TODO:* Allow PUT resource creation (?).

  * *Connectedness*

  Instead of assuming that rules how to construct URIs are known, use links. A service ought to be self-describing, and not relying on auxiliary English text that tells programmers how to write clients. *TODO:* Links for XML/JSON responder.

  * *Relationships Between Resources*

  Instead of modifying the state of two resources, treat the relationship as a third kind of resource. The same goes for transactions. "When in doubt, make it a resource."

  * *URI Design*

  URIs should be meaningful and well-structured. Use query variables only to suggest arguments being plugged into an algorithm. It is almost never appropriate to put the names of operations in URIs. *TODO:* Don't use query variables for pagination.

  * *Outgoing Representations*

  Should be human-readable, but computer-oriented.

  * *Incoming Representations*

  Usually key-value pairs, form-encoding is the most popular representation. If a resource state is too complex for key-value pairs, the input format should be the same as the output format. *TODO:* Submission content types.

  * *Service Versioning*

  Simplest way: Incorporate versioning information into the resources' URIs.

  * *Permanent URIs Versus Readable URIs*

  Whether URIs as UIs (meaningful, may break when resource state changes) or opaque URIs (e.g. using only database id, permanent) are more appropriate depends on the clients. *TODO:* Make sure the Django REST interface makes both options easy.


